NMS-14613  Quick Start: Login and create a user (#5170)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/quick-start/users.adoc

> = Step 1: Login and change admin password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Step 1: Log In and Change `Admin` Password
```

> This section describes the first-time login to OpenNMS {page-component-title}, how to change the admin password, and how to create a user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the first-time login to OpenNMS {page-component-title}, how to change the `admin` account password, and how to create a user.
```

For additional information and procedures on user management, including user groups, user configuration, and security roles, see xref:deep-dive/user-management/introduction.adoc[User Management] in the Deep Dive section.

[[ga-data-choices]]
== First-time login and data choices

Access the {page-component-title} web application at `\http://<ip-or-fqdn-of-your-server>:8980/opennms`.

The default user login is `admin` with the password `admin`.

> The first time you log in we prompt for permission to allow the `Data Choices` module to collect and publish anonymous usage statistics to https://stats.opennms.org.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time you log in, we prompt for permission to allow the `Data Choices` module to collect and publish anonymous usage statistics to https://stats.opennms.org.
```

The OpenNMS Group uses this anonymized information to help determine product usage and to improve the {page-component-title} software.
We do not share it with third parties.

image::users/data-sources.png[prompt,300]

Click *Show me what is being sent* to see what xref:admin/housekeeping/introduction.adoc#ga-data-collection[information we collect].
Statistics collection and publication happen only if an admin user opts in.

NOTE: Admin users can xref:admin/housekeeping/introduction.adoc#disable-data-collection[enable or disable usage statistics collection] at any time.

[[ga-admin-user-setup]]

> == Admin User Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Admin user setup
```

> After logging in for the first time, make sure to change the default admin user password to a secure one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After logging in for the first time, make sure to change the default `admin` account password to a secure one:
```

> . Click the gear icon in the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the gear icon at the top-right of the screen.
```

> . Choose menu:OpenNMS System[Configure Users, Groups and On-Call roles > Configure Users].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Choose menu:OpenNMS System[Configure Users, Groups and On-Call Roles > Configure Users].
```

. Click *Modify* beside the admin user.

> . In the *User Password* area, click *Reset Password*, update the password and click *OK*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *User Password* area, click *Reset Password*.
Update the password and click *OK*.
```

> . Click *Finish* at the bottom of the Modify User screen to save changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Finish* at the bottom of the *Modify User* screen to save changes.
```

> WARNING: Note that you cannot use angle brackets (<>), single (') and double quotation marks ("), and the ampersand symbol (&) in the user ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: You cannot use angle brackets (<>), single (') and double quotation marks ("), or the ampersand symbol (&) in the user ID.
```

> We recommend that you do not use the default `admin` user, but instead xref:deep-dive/user-management/user-config.adoc#ga-user-config [create specific users] with the admin role and/or other permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend that you do not use the default `admin` user account, but instead xref:deep-dive/user-management/user-config.adoc#ga-user-config [create specific users] with the admin role and/or other permissions.
```

This helps to keep track of who has performed tasks such as clearing alarms or creating notifications.

> WARNING: Do not delete the default `admin` and `rtc` users.
> The `rtc` user is used for the communication of the Real-Time Console on the start page to calculate the node and service availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: Do not delete the default `admin` and `rtc` user accounts.
The `rtc` user account is used for the communication of the Real-Time Console on the start page to calculate the node and service availability.

```

> = Step 1: First Time Login

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Step 1: First-Time Login
```

This section describes the first-time login to OpenNMS {page-component-title}, how to change the `admin` account password, and how to create a user.

For additional information and procedures on user management, including user groups, user configuration, and security roles, see xref:deep-dive/user-management/user-config.adoc[User Management] in the Deep Dive section.

[[ga-data-choices]]
== First-time login and data choices

Access the {page-component-title} web application at `\http://<ip-or-fqdn-of-your-server>:8980/opennms`.

The default user login is `admin` with the password `admin`.

> The first time you log in, we prompt for permission to allow the `Data Choices` module to collect and publish anonymous usage statistics to https://stats.opennms.org.
> 
> The OpenNMS Group uses this anonymized information to help determine product usage and to improve the {page-component-title} software.
> We do not share it with third parties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time you log in, we prompt for permission to allow the `Data Choices` module to collect and publish anonymous usage statistics to https://stats.opennms.org.
The OpenNMS Group uses this anonymized information to help determine product usage and to improve the {page-component-title} software.
We do not share it with third parties.
```

. Click the gear icon at the top-right of the screen.
. Choose menu:OpenNMS System[Configure Users, Groups and On-Call Roles > Configure Users].
. Click *Modify* beside the admin user.
. In the *User Password* area, click *Reset Password*.
. Update the password and click *OK*.
. Click *Finish* at the bottom of the *Modify User* screen to save changes.

WARNING: You cannot use angle brackets (<>), single (') and double quotation marks ("), or the ampersand symbol (&) in the user ID.

We recommend that you do not use the default `admin` user account, but instead xref:deep-dive/user-management/user-config.adoc#ga-user-config [create specific users] with the admin role and/or other permissions.
This helps to keep track of who has performed tasks such as clearing alarms or creating notifications.
You should still change the password of the admin user to be more secure.

WARNING: Do not delete the default `admin` and `rtc` user accounts.
The `rtc` user account is used for the communication of the Real-Time Console on the start page to calculate the node and service availability.

> You should still change the password of the admin user to be more secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should still change the password of the admin user to be more secure.

```

> = Step 1: Log In and Change `Admin` Password

Reviewer 2: I don't like how the ` formats in the title.
```suggestion
= Step 1: First Time Log In
```

Reviewer: Good call, that is an annoying formatting thing.
